- [Instructor] Extensibility is a core concept
of object oriented programming languages.
Inheritance and composition are critical to this style.
However, sometimes that extensibility can allow you
to expose yourself to security risks.
When dealing with class and method extensibility in Java,
you need to work within the guidelines
of the language itself,
and in doing so, you need to put some time into design.
Designing of classes needs to take into account
the Java inheritance model.
You need to be cognizant of the effects
of extending your class
and what power that gives somebody, your consumer,
or worse yet, a bad actor can leverage
the ability to extend your class to use it to leak data,
or impact the systems negatively.
Better yet, when working with code that will be consumed,
consider using final modifiers on the classes themselves.
This will allow you to not only protect your classes
as we have previously discussed,
but also ensure that no one can circumvent your design
by simply extending your class.
Final classes, especially in public APIs,
are a very good thing.
Ultimately, you should favor composition to inheritance.
While inheritance may be easier in many cases,
composition is really a better model for both security
and robustness of your application as a whole.
Your contract will be set in stone and can be tested
while your consumers can still use and access your code
within the confines of that contract.
You also need to understand how super classes work in Java.
If you build a class with the best intentions,
but you inherit from some other class
that isn't as diligent, you may still be exposed.
This is especially true when they modify their code.
You can inherit from a class
after checking it for correctness.
They then can change the implementation
while still adhering to the contract.
Your code will still compile,
but now will behave differently,
all of which is ripe for security flaws within your system.
Any time an attacker can get into an unexpected workflow,
it increases their chances of finding
a flaw in the system to leak data, gain access,
or do some other bad activity within your system.